# face-recognization-system
The main purpose of this project is to build a secure and efficient attendance monitoring system for education institutions to enhance and upgrade the current attendance system into more efficient and effective as compared to before.
Why did we come up with this idea? The current old system has a lot of ambiguity that caused inaccurately and inefficiency in attendance taking. When sometimes the attendance is taken on google forms, they just fill the form and do not attend the session. Sometimes cloned faces are also used. Many problems arise when the authority is unable to enforce the regulations thaexistsst in the old system. The technology working behind this will be the face recognition system. The human face is one of the natural traits that can uniquely identify an individual. Therefore, it is used to trace identity as the possibility for a face to deviate. 
Well to cope with the fake, scammed and troublesome procedure to capture real real-time attendance of an attendant (in the online classes or meetings that are common nowadays), we have come up with an idea of our own that provides a solution to the above-proposed problem. Our Prototype is more of an authentic attendance software that e helps the teacher or instructor to record the attendance by ensuring several security measures. In this project, face databases, fingerprint authentication, and IP protection will be created to pump data into the recognizer algorithm. Then, during the attendance-taking session, faces will be compared against the database to seek identity. 
When an individual is identified, their attendance will be taken automatically saving necessary information into an excel sheet. At the end of the day, the excel sheet containing attendance information regarding all individuals is mailed to the respective faculty.
